# Medical-Insurance-Cost-Prediction-using-Machine-Learning-in-Python
People’s healthcare cost forecasting is a valuable tool for improving healthcare accountability. The healthcare sector produces a huge amount of data related to patients, diseases, and diagnoses. Still, since it has not been analyzed properly, it does not provide the significance that it holds along with the patient healthcare cost.
A health insurance company can only make money if it collects more than it spends on the medical care of its beneficiaries. On the other hand, even though some conditions are more prevalent for certain segments of the population, medical costs are difficult to predict since most money comes from rare conditions of the patients. The objective of this article is to accurately predict insurance costs based on people’s data, including age, Body Mass Index, smoking or not, etc. Additionally, we will also determine what the most important variables influencing insurance costs are. These estimates could be used to create actuarial tables that set the price of yearly premiums higher or lower according to the expected treatment costs. This is a regression problem.
The first step is to analyze the dataset. Then we perform data preprocessing. The dataset is divided into training and testing data. We use various algorithms for training the model. The training data teaches what the expected output looks like and the testing data is used to evaluate the regression model.
The algorithm used in this model is Random Forest Regressor, Linear Regression, and Decision Tree  Regression.
